Rewrite Chapter 10 to use sessions from the start (#223)
browserengineering/book: book/security.md

Cookies
=======

With what we've implemented so far there's no way for a web server to
tell whether two HTTP requests come from the same browsers, or
different ones. Our web browser is effectively anonymous.[^1] That
means it can't "log in" anywhere, because there's no way for the
server to know which later requests come from the logged in browser
and which come from some unrelated browser.

The web fixes this problem with cookies. A cookie---the name is
meaningless, ignore it---is a little bit of information stored by your
browser on behalf of a web server. The cookie establishes that

> browser's identity and allows the server to distinguish one web

Author: Let me think more about this, this is a really important point.

Cookies
=======

With what we've implemented so far there's no way for a web server to
tell whether two HTTP requests come from the same user, or
different ones. Our web browser is effectively anonymous.[^1] That
means it can't "log in" anywhere---after logging in, its requests will
look just like those of a new visitor.

[^1]: I don't mean anonymous against malicious attackers, who might
    use *browser fingerprinting* or similar techniques to tell users
    apart. I mean anonymous in the good-faith sense.

The web fixes this problem with cookies. A cookie---the name is

> meaningless, ignore it---is a little bit of information stored by your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
meaningless, ignore it^[If you're interested, the history is [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_cookie)]---is a little bit of information stored by your
```

    you've entered, though our browser doesn't do that.

``` {.python file=server}
def login_form(session):
    body = "<!doctype html>"
    body += "<form action=/ method=post>"
    body += "<p>Username: <input name=username></p>"
    body += "<p>Password: <input name=password type=password></p>"
    body += "<p><button>Log in</button></p>"
    body += "</form>"
    return body 
```

Note that the form `POST`s its data to the `/` URL. We'll want to
route these `POST` requests to a new function that handles logins:

``` {.python file=server}
def do_request(session, method, url, headers, body):
    # ...
    elif method == "POST" and url == "/":
        params = form_decode(body)
        return do_login(session, params)
    # ...
```

This `do_login` function checks passwords and logs people in by
storing their user name in the session data:[^timing-attack]

[^timing-attack]: Actually, using `==` to compare passwords like here
    is a bad idea: Python's equality function for strings scans the
    string from left to right, and exits as soon as it finds a
    difference. So, *how long* it takes to check passwords gives you

>     clues about the password; this is called a "timing side channel".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    clues about the password; this is called a [timing side channel attack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timing_attack).
```

    I'm not fixing this bug because this book is about the browser,
    not the server---but a real web application has to do it right!

``` {.python file=server}
def do_login(session, params):
    username = params.get("username")
    password = params.get("password")
    if username in LOGINS and LOGINS[username] == password:
        session["user"] = username
        return "200 OK", show_comments(session)
    else:
        out = "<!doctype html>"
        out += "<h1>Invalid password for {}</h1>".format(username)
        return "401 Unauthorized", out
```

Try it out in a normal web browser. You should be able to go to the
main guest book page, click the link to log in, use one of the
username/password pairs above, and post entries.^[The login flow slows
down debugging. You might want to add the empty string as a
username/password pair.] Of course, this login system has a whole slew
of insecurities.[^7] But the focus of this book is the browser, not
the server, so once you're sure it's all working, let's switch gears
and implement cookies inside our own browser.

> [^7]: The insecurities include not hashing passwords, not using `bcrypt`, not verifying

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^7]: The insecurities include not hashing passwords, not using [`bcrypt`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt), not verifying
```

    clues about the password; this is called a "timing side channel".
    I'm not worrying about that here, because this book is really
    about the browser, not the server---but a secure web application
    would have to fix it!

``` {.python file=server}
def do_login(session, params):
    username = params.get("username")
    password = params.get("password")
    if username in LOGINS and LOGINS[username] == password:
        session["user"] = username
        return "200 OK", show_comments(session)
    else:
        out = "<!doctype html>"
        out += "<h1>Invalid password for {}</h1>".format(username)
        return "401 Unauthorized", out
```

Try it out in a normal web browser. You should be able to go to the
main guest book page, click the link to log in, use one of the
username/password pairs above, and post entries.^[The login flow slows
down debugging. You might want to add the empty string as a
username/password pair.] Of course, this login system has a whole slew
of insecurities.[^7] But the focus of this book is the browser, not
the server, so once you're sure it's all working, let's switch gears
and implement cookies inside our own browser.

> [^7]: I should be hashing passwords! Using `bcrypt`! We should verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^7]: The insecurities include not hashing passwords, not using `bcrypt`, not verifying
```

>     email addresses! Over TLS! We should run the server in a sandbox!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    email addresses, not forcing TLS, and not running the server in a sandbox.
```
